Kill the electoralist in your head. The median voter (man) is a misogynist. If you compromise your feminism in a vulgar attemtpt to meet them where they're at you will very quickly no longer be doing feminism.

Though to be honest most electoralists have a terrible grasp on feminism to begin with, and that's why they see hope in the strategy. Communists distain to conceal their aims, while "leftists" continue to dilute their already feeble theory. The feeble theory is unthreatening to herd because it does not actually deviate from patriarchy. Liberation through reform is not possible. 

Also I've seen a lot of misunderstanding and talking past each other regarding the nature of men benefitting from or having an interest in patriarchy. Men benefit from patriarchy. You can say it is not ultimately in their interest in a wider sense, but they will not see it as such until their values change and the previous benefits no longer appear as benefits. To those who retain their patriarchal values, realizing what is in their interests will be a loss.

the "left"

"One might try to construe all these cases as ones in which I experience a conflict between two desires - perhaps a 'first-order desire' and a 'second-order desire' - rather than as a conflict between wish/desire on the one hand, and something else ('interest') on the other.
I would prefer not to adopt this strategy for the following reason: I may have a desire with which I wholly identify myself, and may have an interest in not gratifying that desire, although I have no second-order desire not to gratify it. Partially reformed alcoholics have a strong first-order desire for drink, and a strong second-order desire that that first-order desire not be satisfied; these desires conflict. An unregenerate alcoholic has an excessive desire for drink, and no appropriate second-order desire that that excessive desire not be satisfied. Perhaps if unregenerate alcoholics were more rational, they would try to acquire the appropriate second-order desires, but, from the fact that they would try to acquire them under some other circumstances, it doesn't follow that they now in some sense 'have' them. " (46-47 Idea of a Critial Theory, Geuss)

"But what does it mean to say that alcoholics have an interest, but no desire to restrict their drinking other than that we, the outside observers, think that it would be better for them not to have the desire for drink?" (47 Idea of a Critial Theory Geuss)


“Reform,” of course, has always been with us, and even those 
who wish things to stay the same can be intelligent enough to see 
that they can only remain the same if they change.12 So calls for reform, as I mentioned above, can be comforting. There is little point 
in trying to “reform” something one thinks is fundamentally hopeless, like, for instance, systems of slavery; we think they need to be 
abolished (100, Reality and its Dreams Geuss)
Tomasi di Lampedusa, Der Leopard (Munich: Piper, 1962), 33.

Best of all, because people were not so stupid as to believe that 
these Western societies were fl awless, would be a view that encouraged minor reformist activity while overwhelmingly endorsing the 
basic socioeconomic framework. This would allow its adherents to 
bask in a warm and comforting glow of self- righteousness while 
remaining fi rmly within the limits set for the self- reproduction 
of the basic economic framework, and indeed strengthening this 
framework (99)

To 
permit or even encourage small- scale criticism or whistle- blowing 
can, after all, be a way of making a given individual institution 
(eventually) more effective and thus more difficult to delegitimize. 
Even criticism of larger scope can be welcome, provided it is presented in the right way as ‘internal’— that is, insofar as it appeals to 
and tacitly endorses the recognised values that guide social reproduction and is seen to be in any case unavoidable. In Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa’s novel about nineteenth- century Sicily, The 
Leopard, the son of a large landowner says ‘For every thing to remain the same [sometimes] every thing has to change,’ and at the end 
of the brief Garibaldian moment which the novel pres ents as one 
in which the world is turned upside down, the old landowners are 
still in charge.1 So it is difficult, if not impossible, to tell in a noncontextual way whether a given form of critical thinking is really a 
threat to the reproduction of a given social formation or rather an 
integral part of an increasingly highly sophisticated apparatus of 
legitimation. (202, changing the subject Geuss)
 Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa, The Leopard, translated by Archibald 
Colquhoun (Collins, 1960), p. 40

Although the situation of oppression is a dehumanized and dehumanizing totality affecting both the oppressors and those whom they 
oppress, it is the latter who must, from their stifled humanity, wage 
for both the struggle for a fuller humanity; the oppressor, who is 
himself dehumanized because he dehumanizes others, is unable to 
lead this struggle. (47 Freire)

As the 
oppressors dehumanize others and violate their rights, they themselves also become dehumanized. (56 Freire)

The oppressors do not perceive their monopoly on having more 
as a privilege which dehumanizes others and themselves. They cannot see that, in the egoistic pursuit of having as a possessing class, 
they suffocate in their own possessions and no longer are; they 
merely have. For them, having more is an inalienable right, a right 
they acquired through their own "effort," with their "courage to take 
risks." If others do not have more, it is because they are incompetent 
and lazy, and worst of all is their unjustifiable ingratitude towards 
the "generous gestures" of the dominant class. Precisely because 
they are "ungrateful" and "envious," the oppressed are regarded as 
potential enemies who must be watched. (59 Freire)

No one 
can be authentically human while he prevents others from being so. 
Attempting to be more human, individualistically, leads to having 
more, egotistically, a form of dehumanization. Not that it is not 
fundamental to have in order to be Human. Precisely because it is 
necessary, some men's having must not be allowed to constitute an 
obstacle to others having, must not consolidate the power of the 
former to crush the latter. (86 Freire)

The fear of freedom is greater still in professionals who have not 
yet discovered for themselves the invasive nature of their action, and 
who are told that their action is dehumanizing. Not infrequently, 
especially at the point of decoding concrete situations, training 
course participants ask the coordinator in an irritated manner: 
"Whqre do you think you re steering us, anyway?" The coordinator 
isn't trying to "steer" them anywhere; it is just that in facing a concrete Situation as a problem, the participants begin to realize that 
if their analysis of the situation goes any deeper they will either have 
to divest themselves of their myths, or reaffirm them. Divesting 
themselves of and renouncing their myths represents, at that moment, an act of self-violence. On the other hand, to reaffirm those 
myths is to reveal themselves. The only way out (which functions as 
a defense mechanism) is to project onto the coordinator their own 
usual practices: steering, conquering, and invading? (157 Freire)






