12/16/2022 07:39

I. Intro
	A. Thesis 1: I am not an otaku enough, and am self-conscious about this. Compared to others and especially those I admire, I feel behind. 
		1. Modified Thesis 1: I am an otaku about some things, but these are in limited domains that I don't feel are very impressive or interesting to me or anyone else anymore. 
	B. My model for what my desires were supposed to look like was significantly deficient. I adopted the goals of people around me that I wanted to please, and thought this was how I should pursue activities. I thought that my activities only had value when validated by the instrumental standards of others. I did not feel like I could engage in activities for the enjoyment of the action itself, excluding activities that were generally thought of as only being able to pursued for simple pleasure. 
		1. Over time I felt uncomfortable because of this, but did not know how to point to the cause. The state of unknowing and disorientation is unpleasant as well, and contributed to the pain I felt. I reacted in different ways over time: in middle school I started to drop activities altogether when there was any hint of instrumental orientation, and in later high school I developed a vulgar selfishness. I feel that now I am in a decent place where I have been able to mostly untangle myself from this worldview (when I am at my most clear-headed), and so it makes sense that I can now retrospectively analyze my history.
II. 



Thesis 1: I am not an otaku enough, and am self-conscious about this. Compared to others and especially those I admire, I feel behind. Modified Thesis 1: I am an otaku about some things, but these are in limited domains that I don't feel are very impressive or interesting to me or anyone else anymore. There is a great risk this assessment is greatly informed by productivist point of view, but I still think there is an issue considering I have moved on and no longer care about the things I used to. Historically I haven't been good at contextualizing my activities and learning deeper things about them. There is an element of being uninterested because a "learning is for school" type of thing, but I don't know it just seems more like disinterest? But that doesn't quite capture it becuase I am interested if it was presented to me, I just don't actively seek it out. But it doesn't seem like I am simply overwhelmed and don't know where to start, I just don't look into it. Maybe it's because I've had a certain mindset from my youth that's like "I don't care *who* is behind a thing". I think this a very neoliberal thing. Like history doesn't matter, culture doesn't matter, borders don't matter, individuals don't matter, all that matters is the finished product. Which like there are potentially some elements of that that are appropriable if you hardcore twist and reinterpret them ("don't be suceptible to Great Man thinking"), but that's not really how they present themselves. I think this is part of why I was so taken by Geuss' contextualism: recognizing that the history and context is vital for finding and creating and understanding any meaning whatsoever. It's very important and I recognize it as such, but my actions haven't caught up with that understanding even now. It's still rather unfortunate that I didn't do it historically for any of my interests. I think a good example of this is Overwatch. For the longest time, I didn't look into the developers or know anything about them, and I still don't think I've read any of the comics they released over the years. I literally just hyperfixated on the balance of the game and depersonalized and decontextualized everything. The closest I got was watching developer updates on the YouTube channel. I picked up "soldier is gay" through osmosis and friends I had, but especially before I had Twitter I just was totally uncaring about any of that stuff. And to be honest I'm not sure if I can blame me. I don't know if I would say I'm better off now for knowing things like that about the game, but maybe that's just because of the choice of hobby? Like for anime it seems rather important for comprehending what is going on to have basic knowledge about the hero's journey or the history of the creators or things like that. Also though for Overwatch it was a fairly unhealthy thing to decontextualize everything because it meant I treated balance changes as just a fact of life and tried to optimize within them. Which is a good strategy if your only goal is to improve at the game, but extremely deficient for any broader understanding. And it's different from what some pros do where they have that greater context and understanding, and then intentionally choose to pretend like they forget about it because it is outside of their hands. 

Something I forgot to mention yesterday that helps make sense of the timeline is that I got a personal desktop going into high school. I no longer had to use the shared family laptop and was able to start playing games on my own. I also got pretty into watching let's plays of YouTubers as well. I think this helps explain the crowding out of other activities, like cubing. As well as setting the stage for more depression-isolation things to come.

It is interesting to note that even during my vulgar selfishness stage I would still do a lot of the activities that were not "my own", as they did genuinely seem beyond my control. The big example that comes to mind is work. It was just treated as a sort of natural fact, and the fact that a lot of adults were telling me that it was important I do something was enough for me to do it. Obviously my bosses had an interest in me coming in, particularly given how long I had worked there and how hard I worked. My coworkers also had an interest in me coming in often because it would lessen the load on them. My parents had a certain idea of what a good child would do and this was extremely important for that model. I think my story is interesting to contrast with my brother. He pushed back a lot more with things like this throughout our childhood. He started working at the same resturaunt after a lot of pressure and quit very soon after and hated it. I think the interesting thing is that he allowed himself to feel that hate and discomfort and acted on it. Part of the main point I'm trying to get at is that I don't feel like I had that throughout my youth. Things were just treated as natrual facts, like a hurricane or a tornado. It doesn't matter if you don't like it, you just have to stoicly deal with the situation. It's easier if you just accept it and power through and become a docile body that can be used for someone elses aims. It reminds me a lot of abuse victims just trying to do what their abuser says and trying to please them in order to try to get the pain to stop. But what's different is that on some level I just sort of didn't allow myself to feel the pain at all. I was completely out of touch with how I was feeling about anything; it's almost as if I didn't have any tools for evaluation whatsoever. This is why in some sense I have deep respect for people I've interacted with that just follow their immediate desires and feelings. (Insert bit about Dionysian play here). But actually, like whether it be J or the guy I met on bumble or whatever, those types of people that actually feel things and act on them are just very admirable to me in a certain sense. I think that interest is a lot less viscerally gripping and impressive than it used to be for me, but I still maintain that positive evaluation a lot. Another example from my brother is him putting off getting his driver's license. I enrolled in all the classes and attended everything even when I was pretty grouchy and in a rough place. It was just something that had to be done, no questions. My brother has delayed and pushed back and rejected for over 3 years now. And on some level while I recognize that the motivations for why he's doing that are maybe not the best, I admire the aspect that can assert his own desires. Of course, my parents hate it. I think they see him and he sees himself as the sort of screw up younger child that couldn't live up to the expectations and standard I set. Which fucking sucks and I hate that. It was really weird growing up because my parents would have harsh and strict rules for me, and by the time my brother reached the same age they would take a more flexible approach. I don't really know what to attribute that to, but I don't think it's an uncommon phenomenon for parents with multiple children. Something I've also noticed a lot with the people I'm talking about here that are able to follow their immediate desires is that they are deeply ashamed of this part of themselves and feel that it is disgusting and wrong and bad. Whereas I guess I see it more as a problem of the institutions around people that demand that kind of behavior. That's obviously easy for me to say when I'm achieving success within those institutions' standards and evaluating from sufficient distance. The shame and guilt are ideological secretions at individuating and morally condemning people. Succumbing to that shame and guilt is a sign of weakness I think, and not something to be proud of when I do it.

Also something I want to clarify is that some of the activities themselves that people are coerced to do might be fine on their own: it can be good to learn to drive, it can be good to read a lot, it can be good to learn how to play the piano. But the final result is not the only thing that matters, and is not the only thing that is learned in the process. The pedagogy is extremely important and the social relations enforcing that pedagogy as the only option, and even that the skill has to be learned at all. This quickly becomes complicated in a system where there is not many options. Driving is an essential skill in the type of society we have because of the way our infrastructure is set up. The only way to get a driver's license legitimately is through a specific method, and there is a great deal of cultural significance placed on the ability to perform properly. I am not denying the fact that a lot of these skills are "valuable" or important for the type of society we have, but that this fact is a fact is a more resentable part of our social order. 

Philosophy/ politics
even now I am intensely self-conscious about the fact that I do not have enough historical context and knowledge about the history of philosophy or the history of political theory. I need to know more and read more but also greatly lack historical context of the individual writers, and to some extent I feel like this is pretty blamable on the way philosophy/political theory is taught in universities, or at least my university. Firstly, the history is not emphasized whatsoever. Maybe if you're lucky you'll get little soundbites of "Kant was a response to Hume", but nothing really substantial. And secondly, there is an attempt to be "neutral" when historicizing. This is another reason why I think Geuss' work is so important to me. It is critically essential to understand politically what a writer is doing beyond just the propositional truths you can glean from their work. Lastly and connected to this, authors are taught by taking small small exerpts from large volumes of work and then presented for their most central ideas. This is a horrendous model for understanding any thinker. The movements and moments are extremely important, and what you might see as dry and gray material is actually incredibly important for understanding them as a thinker. Whether or not a thinker is actually worth treating in what way is also not considered. So yeah, classes are terrible for learning this stuff so you have to do it on your own and seek it out on your own time. But that is HARD because you literally don't know what to look for. Meeting with more well-read people with that historical background and more knowledge could be so cool and its just completely wasted.

A big contributor to me lacking in the proper context/background for my interests is the relatively introverted nature I had/have. I'm very not interested in getting involved in larger movements/communities. The one counter-example I can think of is cubing? Like attending competitions and events. But that was pretty short lived. Actually I think its probably an issue with how my personality developed post-high school. Before then with doing plays and things I was somewhat involved in a community at the private theatre as well, and even if my main motivation was doing things for S, I still think there was some level of community in ensemble and jazz band. Certainly during and after high school that wasn't much of a thing though. The closest thing during that time was ED Tumblr lol. Maybe the issue was just that going out and meeting people in real life was intimidating and I would need to coordinate with my parents, and that combined with not being able to use the internet properly just sorta left me alone. Though I also think its interesting that I didn't really consider contributing myself even when I did eventually join social media. I just lurk a lot, reblog/tweet things I like, and mostly talk to myself. Hell, I've requested my data for Twitter and Discord before and the vast majority of the messages I've ever sent are just talking to myself in private channels or completely locked accounts. And when I do engage with others my preference is extremely oriented around just speaking one on one without others around. The amount of messages I have sent in group servers is vanishly small. I think I might be too close and living through things currently to have enough cognitive distance to really understand that. But the broader point I'm trying to make I think is clear enough: a lot of learning is done through community, and the social significance different ideas and movements have. It's one thing to read someone's characterization of a movement, it's another thing to see Twitter MLs say comically misguided things all the time. Propositionally the knowledge might be the same, but the way that knowledge is emobided and understood phenomenologiacally is worlds apart. Politics Twitter has been my really only exposure to knowledge like this, and after being around a while I'm quite aware of its limitations, but I do think its extremely important to have people to engage with that are similar enough to you in terms of interests to actually engage with your ideas and interests and things. Like when I was into cubing I had a friend that I would hang out with a bunch but I actually don't think I liked their personality at all lol. It was just really important to have someone to be around that liked the same things as me. And more recently meeting people like K have been just massively important, though thats not tied to any one interest area and more existential affinity. Even after recognizing this importance though, I have a hard time seeing this as as changing for me. My interests are fairly niche, so it would probably be best to find people online rather than in person. And even then it feels weird to actually earnestly engage with the people I meet along the way rather than just observe. Like I have discord servers of people that would call me a friend and that I could communicate in, and I even keep up with the chat messages. Every day or so I'll scroll through and see what they've been up to, and will just never post. That doesn't bother me that I do that really, but clearly it doesn't establish the type of dynamic I've been talking about. 

The other thing I did in elementary school was sports. My parents put me in baseball, soccer, and basketball. The basketball was this weird Christian cult organization thing with a bunch of weird stars and shit I don't even know; it was called "Upward Sports" if you want to look them up and get the vibe. But yeah, sports were never really my thing they were just something I did because I was put in them. I never watched sports or cared about them, and neither did my parents really. My dad watched football mostly as a social activity to do with other guys I think, but that was about it. It was confusing and humiliating a lot because I didn't understand the rules. I remember a particular time when I ran past second base because I had just learned that you could run past first base no problem and that was frustrating and confusing and embarrassing. But for the most part I don't really think I evaluated any of this at all really. Again, they were just natural features of my world that I did without any real input on my end.

One way of phrasing the problem is that I have issues with well integrated and well rounded knowledge. I have tended to focus on one specific aspect of the things I am interested in, or at least have not had a sufficient grasp on the totality of a hobby and its many ways to approach it. While this is likely fairly common, I think that frequently people are worse off for it, although of course that is contextual and it would be entirely unreasonable to demand that for every single activity someone engaged in, and even unreasonable to demand for all of their consistent hobbies. I also think the way I approach institutionalized knowledge furthers this problem for me. I tend to approach things with some ironic detachment, recognizing that I'm just doing this activity for a grade and having that in mind while I'm learning. So even when I do get some historical contextualization in philosophy class there is a tendency to just narrowly understand just as much as I need to understand the basics of the thinker we are engaging with, and then learn just enough of those basics in order to write a shitty paper on it. Which is obviously a totally backwards way to approach genuine understanding, but is pragmatically quite effective at doing what I need in the moment. I don't think it's unreasonable either: school sucks and I don't want to learn what you think is relevant about a thinker that you choose on your time frame. But yeah, I perform the bare minimum to get the grades I need to pursue my other nested needs (I need to learn about the history of Hume in order to understand Kant in order to understand him enough to write a paper in order to get a good grade in the class in order to meet the degree requirements for my major in order to get a diploma in order to get a job in order to get money in order to... etc). Rather than focus on what might actually be the most important part of the entire thing (historical contextualization) I use it instrumentally and leave it by the wayside as I progress towards my other goals.