17:22 2/19/2023

Incelcore

Because of the incelcore music I reposted from SoundCloud, I've been banned today for a week from YouTube and received one strike on my channel. In case you aren't familiar with YouTube's policies, this means I've actually received a warning prior to this for other another video. 

On February 6th, I received a warning for reposting the song "anorexicfuneralparty - i'm sorry i'm such a letdown" for violating the policy of "glorifying terrorist organizations". To be fair, the thumbnail and image during the video was one half Elliot Rodger and one half an image of a blonde girl with a mosaic over her face in a blue dress (which is referencing what the incel community calls a "Stacy"). I don't wanna get super deep into incel lore, but it's basically supposed to be "a woman able to secure sexual intimacy with Chad", who is vain, stupid, degenerate, and has an undeserved ego. [1] Obviously incredibly misogynistic, and it would almost be hilarious in how extreme it people didn't genuinely believe it. 

Today, I received the strike and ban for "aj 2 - Incelxxx (slowed+reverb)" for violating the same policy. Again, the thumbnail and image was Elliot Rodger. You would think I would have learned my lesson, but this time the video got removed even when it was unlisted. I don't think I even planned on publishing it in its current state, since lately I've just been bulk downloading everything from a soundcloud channel I enjoy, reuploading it unlisted, and altering the visibility when I want to make it public. 

But that raises the question I'm trying to answer with this piece (or at least talk about and explore): what the fuck do I enjoy about incelcore? You would think as ostensibly some anarcha-feminist I would completely hate the stuff. One very obvious answer could be that I'm just not as feminist as I think I am, or that this is an instance of me being inconsistent on my principles. Which, honestly, I think is an argument that could be strongly made. I don't think it's unreasonable to citique someone's dispositional temperments and emotional sympathies at all, and its certainly not something you can just "it's just my subjective preference bro". 

At the same time, I think it wouldn't be entirely useless to set aside that answer for the moment and see what else interests me about incelcore. 

First of all, I actually am not infrequently disgusted when I listen to the lyrics. What's way worse though is the comment sections. Very gross, super misogynistic, super transphobic,  super racist, extremely uncomfortable overall; and certainly make me feel way different than listening to the music itself. Which seems really odd, like why the difference? Music isn't just some neutral expression, at least one part of what it is doing is a political speech act. And I'm not just saying that because of the explicitly political message of the lyrics (although that does stregnthen and alter the type of political intervention it is making), but rather just because that's true of all music ever to varying degrees. 

I think the reason I feel differently about the music is because of the impression it leaves on me and the emotions it invokes. It's times like these where I wish I was a lot more well read in aesthetic theory and had acquired a better repository of vocabulary to describe what I'm trying to get at, but I'll do the best I can. 

I think the best way to start to get at this issue is to situate the genre in its relation to other genres. I'm probably one of the worst people to do this because I suck at recognizing and thinking about categorization of genres in general, and have nowhere near enough historical background to do it competently, but it's important here so I'll do my best. Primarily I just want to speak about incelcore's relation to the genre of bedroom punk.

Bedroom punk is kinda like low fidelity endearingly ameteurish punk music. Similar to bedroom pop, it gets its name from people creating lo-fi music that sounds like it was made with the limited resources of something throwing something together in their bedroom, except obviously punk instead of pop. While "bedroom pop" has kind of gone out of control, or maybe was never really that genuine in the first place about its actual basis in people's bedrooms (creators are millionaires, children of music industry veterans, record in studios, etc.), in my experience bedroom punk definitely keeps the scuffed vibe and seems like a much more authentic scene in that respect.

However, the comparison of incelcore to bedroom punk is a controversial one. The best example of this is obviously UhOhSlater's "Fuck Bedroom Punk". [2] The lyrics are as follows:

I hate your fucking optics
I hate your fucking friends
I hate your pc thinking
You're just a fucking f*g
You have no fucking personality
You're just a cuck
I think your music is shit
I think that you fucking suck

Fuck Bedroom punk, I'm incelcore


The top comment chain is:

Ulfeheddin 368
2 years ago
At first i tought "isnt bedroom punk incelcore?" Then i heard the lyrics lol
27 likes

wcx
2 years ago
bedroom punk is just incelcore without the misogyny
12 likes (one is me uwu)

Eliel Bareto
1 year ago
@wcx that means it sucks
27 likes


But you also see pushback on the other side as well, from artists being labeled incelcore and not wanting that. The obvious example would be XO_willow's "I'm Not Incelcore", [3] but to be honest I don't know enough about the original artist to make a claim about how ironic they are being. However, I know for a fact that many of the people making covers and spinoffs actually feel that way. There is clearly some level of affinity and similarity, but nonetheless wanting to distance themselves. Which is obviously very understandable if one of the criteria for inclusion is being misogynistic in all your songs. 

In any case, I actually do think there is a substantial difference between incelcore and bedroom punk. Furthermore, I actually agree with wcx descriptively to some extent, and shockingly Eliel Bareto and UhOhSlader evaluatively. Like yeah, bedroom punk is basically just incelcore without the misogyny, and that basically is why it sucks.

Okay so that's gonna need a shit ton of qualification, but I think it's good to get the thesis out right away. It's important because the answer to the conflict between my values and the music cannot just simply be solved by listening to a similar genre (or the broader category that encompasses incelcore, depending on your interpretation). Idk, maybe it's possible there's a lot of great bedroom punk out there and I've just been unlucky, but I've been severely unimpressed so far. 

I think the less provacative way to phrase the above thesis is that incelcore refers to a music community that is parasytic on other communities (namely 4chan and incel communities), and this mileu influences the art they create in ways that make them distinct from bedroom punk. Even if for some reason the attachment to the original source communities is severed (which there is no reason to believe has actually happened by any means), once a community is started having that scene reciprically influences the members. They listen to each other's music, cover it, sample it, respond to it, the same as any other scene. That historical development creates something unique.

The above is kinda vague and if you really pushed me on it I don't have great examples lined up to back up my point, since I've never really been in 4chan or incel communities and I'm not really in the incelcore crowd either. Nevertheless, I think it's a fairly safe characterizations of all aesthetic communities. 

"Okay but even if it's unique and there's not a replacement, what about it is in any way appealing in the first place? It's just bigoted drivel." Okay well honestly not wrong. However, I think that what stands out to me is the emotion behind it that comes through very clearly, and the harmony between the scrappy music and the tone the artist is vocally and emotively conveying. Some of the emotions evoked are: anger, depression, melancholy, frustration, misanthropy, disdain, contempt, malice, hate, and entitlement. That message is all wrapped in an intentionally edgy, amoral, self-depricating, ironic, and occassionally clever package. 

A lot of those emotions are things I relate to, which is mostly what I think draws me to it. Some of them aren't, like entitlement is very off-putting to me. However, the content of their entitlement is so extreme it's actually incredibly funny to me. Most of the time when I hear it I actually emotively interpret it as parody, but when I actually reflect on it I'm pretty sure they're often being genuine; and even if they aren't, some non-insignificant portion (possibly even the majority or plurality of consistent listeners) of the audience absolutely is. 

I think I have this problem in general, where if someone disagrees with me I just find it very funny that they would think that rather than being shocked or frustrated.[5] This is likely highly highly informed by my positionality as someone who is privileged as fuck and can live my life having the ascribed identity of a straight white cis guy. When some right wing shitter starts posting about trans people, its just goofy to me mostly. Wild that this person cares so much about this thing, and has such a blatantly incorrect understanding of the world. But like I alluded to with 'posting', it's usually online where I find that stuff funny. Talking with racist, transphobic, and misogynistic family members irl (or more accurately, overhearing them because I am uncomfortable actually talking with them) is fucking revolting and not really that funny anymore. When its not just the silly pixels and I'm reminded that the real life political power that is enforced with this shit, it's not funny. At my work the other day I had to sit on a call with some guy just agressively talking standard Republican talking points (Hunter Biden, inflation, covid hoax, pride parades, mutilating babies, critical race theory), I actually had to step out for a bit to compose myself after the call. [6] Mostly the trans stuff was really hard to hear as I've been feeling touchy about that personally a lot lately. But yea I guess my main point is that overall I'm not forced to confront this stuff daily or worry legitimately about my safety, and that that probably influences what level of cognitive distance I can put between myself and bigoted rhetoric.

Something that is closely related to me finding opinions humorous when they don't agree with me is obliviously not realizing they disagree with me at all. A good example of this is my experience with the recent Dunkey Video on the Harry Potter game. [6] The first time I watched it I thought it was really funny, like the thesis of the video was "wow, game companies have a bunch of really shitty people working for them" and the character in the video was just some clueless, well-meaning guy that was being made aware of the actions of creators. I only realized after watching later and peeking on social media that the main takeaway was something different (honestly shocking I saw it at all, randomly went on Twitter after browser blocking it and deleting it from my phone for the past couple weeks). Actually, upon rewatch, it was abundantly clear that their interpretation was correct about the point Dunkey was trying to make that "it doesn't matter lawl, cancel culture run amock xd". Idk, I think I'm just bad at interpreting things that disagree with me as disagreeing with me, rather than parodying someone that would be daft enough to disagree with me. Which is hilariously narcissistic in its own right. 

But at the same time, I think it's something that is maybe more understandable given the sort of post-ironic space occupied by a lot of younger online spaces. It's hard to tell when people are being serious or if you're just missing the joke, and committing to a position often feels dangerously pre-emptive. So I guess I often sit in this limbo, or assume irony where there is none intended, and I don't know if that's necessarily a bad thing honestly. Especially when it comes to explicitly aesthetic phenomenon, [7] my interpretation can hold significance even if its entirely incongruent with the original creator's intentions. [8]

When it comes to incelcore, the irony is very often very apparent, and yet I also seem to frequently interpret it where there is none. To be honest though when I see the actual incel crowd in the comments it's a little jarring and confusing, and my initial reaction is to feel like they missed that it was a joke. But I suppose the right wing edgy shit kinda thrives in that environment with its uncollapsed wave form of plausible deniability. [9]

Ok it's getting late (19:23 lol) and I'm very tired, and idk if I have much more to say tonight. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

13:42 02/23/2023

So it's been a few days and I've had some time to ruminate with the ideas I was trying to express a bit more. 

The first thing I'd like to revise is that the reasons I am drawn to incelcore are not actually exclusive to that genre specifically, and that I actually enjoy a lot of other bedroom punk. Not only that, but bedroom punk that is not incelcore resolves a lot of the reservations and downsides I have with incelcore itself. So I don't really know what I was talking about before. I struggle with the whole genre and categorization thing, but maybe incelcore is one genre among many within an umbrella of edgy-bedroom-punk or 4chan-bedroom-punk or mental-illness-bedroom-punk. Idk, maybe it's dumb to micro-genre it all and just say there's some bedroom punk I like that has some family resemblences and that's good enough. All my categorizations are going to be working from that point anyway, so why bother pretending like it has some indedent ontological status lol?

But I'm kind of getting ahead of myself because I never finished my explanation in the first place.

Before I got distracted with talking about irony I was mentioning the intensity of the emotions that are dripping from incelcore-esque tracks. There's this tone of the music that is radically negative and filled with resentment, angst, disillusionment, anxiety, aggression, insecurity, and frustration. Some times there's comfort in the relatability that offers. Other times when I'm feeling completely numb it's like there's someone there to feel something for me. I feel an overwhelming pressure on me to be affirmative of myself and the context I exist within and it disgusts me. It feels like this music understands that, and can aptly capture something significant. I don't think I'm all that special, I think there's a lot of people in my generation that feel similarly often, particularly those with a precarious economic position. But I also think that most of them want to escape that negativism and avoid it as much as possible. It's psychically easier to try to accomodate oneself and be happy with what you're given. Joy is cowardly in a world as rotten as ours. It's understandable, but a little pathetic. Especially because the route most people choose to reach happiness is to assimilate as best they can into being a productive worker (or hegemonic gender categories, etc.) or trying to assert dominance from the heights of hierarchy. Incorporating a healthy dose of Nietzschean pathos of distance into one's emotional repertoire seems appropriate in cases like these.

So while incelcore evokes these great emotions that are fitting and appropriate for [post-modernity or late-stage capitalism or whatever], the diagnosis and orientation of these emotions are completely wrong, and actually are just reinforcing the same shit that got us here. In some ways its admirable and refreshing that they see through the liberal bullshit, but then just go right-wing with it. I have undeveloped thoughts about whether or not the emotions can even be called appropriate under those conditions, and it gets into the complicated relationship and directionality between emotions and political views. In some ways I'm inclined to believe that emotional states precede political propositions, but I also think that there aren't any such thing as politically unmediated emotional states. 

Leaving that aside, I really enjoy the simultaneous presence of condesencion and misanthropy paired with self-deprication and insecurity in particular. The music just exists in this wonderful tension at all times. I hate you and I hate myself too. Disgust is abundant and there's plenty for everyone. Which is why I think even when I am disgusted by the music itself that that's valuable and fitting too. 

Idk, this is all super messy and I don't think I've unraveled very much at all. I'm not sure if these multi-day blog posts work very well. I kinda just need to dump everything in one go or it won't make sense. My opinions, emotions, and impressions shift too much to make anything cohesive across time. 

It feels like a waste not to post this, but I kinda hate it lol. Then again I kinda hate everything else I've posted too, but once it's up it kinda makes sense? Another reason why I've gotta post it all at once. 

Anyway this fell apart hope you enjoyed reading.

In conclusion: everything is shit, aesthetic experiences that reflect that are cool, I should have read more Adorno before writing about this, and fuck YouTube. 

also idk where or how to incorporate this but some of my fav incelcore-esque music is from trans ppl and women and that kinda makes everything confusing. i should tlak about this when i care, but i think i wont have the interest or care past this point ever again :/


[1] https://incels.wiki/w/Stacy 
[2] fuck bedroom punk
[3] i'm not incelcore
[4] Despite listening to a bunch of their stuff and liking it a lot, I can't really be bothered to look into the lore. Tbh tho if xo_willow isn't incelcore I'm not really sure what is lol.
[5] I don't wanna get too distracted (I'm already distracted) because I could talk about this forever about how much I hate my job and the intersection between liberal neutrality, labor and its coercive stripping of a laborer's personal convictions in order to valorize capital, emotional labor in the original sense, and the corrosive influence this has on one's ability to foster apt dispositional responses to situations.
[6] dunkey vid
[7] Though this also applies to things not explicitly intended to be aesthetic in nature. blah blah separation of life and art blah blah aesthetics is just one semi-autonomous language game that can be used as an interprative approach blah blah idk what I'm talking about I haven't read enough leave me alone.
[8] If that even forms a coherent set of definable propositions. blah blah hermeneutics blah blah Quentin Skinner idk what I'm talking about I haven't read enough leave me alone.
[9] I wrote some follow-up stuff in my notes in the days following the original writing but I don't like much of it so I'm going to skip it. In a nutshell I said that the not-so-ironic incelcore stuff makes a more heavy-handed moderation approach more understandable, but that I don't think platform motivations or regulations (Bianca's law) are good ways of addressing it. I have some unresolved thoughts between acknoledging mass psychology but also being extremely uncomfortable with the discretionary power to censor. I think a clever implementation of a broadly accepted protocol replacing platforms would address these concerns.