12/20/2022 14:58
On the Contextual Aptness of Context

Those who know me well will be familiar with my frequent references to Raymond Geuss. At the start of this year I began reading his books and was extremely admiring of his philosophical orientation. One of the most significant features of this orientation is the rejection of all-encompassing worldviews, and instead endorsing a contextualist approach:
"First, meaning (and consequently knowledge) is essentially contextual; second, meaning must be a collective, that is a social phenomenon; third, there is no final all-encompassing framework which puts everything together; finally, the absence of such a framework, and thus of any “final” meaning visibly does not entirely destroy the phenomenon of local meaning. If these views are at all correct, it would seem that asking questions about meaning, success, life as a whole, or one’s real self, require rather a dif­ferent approach from any of those discussed in this book. The task becomes not one of looking for some single thing, but managing, as Nietzsche suggests, (sometimes) multiple shifting perspectives, and negotiating smooth transitions—transitions that are “as smooth as possible” (whatever that means)—between irreducibly dif­ferent contexts." (Who Needs a Worldview? pg. 163)
This was conceptually compelling and simply enthralling to see at work in his various essays. To understand why his work was so significant for me, you need to understand the environment I had found myself in. To summarize my philosophical history: I became interested in philosophy by watching Destiny videos in high school, and decided to take some philosophy classes in college which eventually led to me adding it as one of my majors. I also watched plenty of philosophy lectures and videos on my own time, and would read a lot of (liberal) political philosophy in my political science classes as well. More or less all of these can be categorized as "analytical" philosophy, as contrasted to "continental" philosophy. Now, this divide is problematic and often not very helpful, but somes broad characterizations of intellectual traditions can get at something important. Something I found particularly frustrating about the analytical tradition was the endless rigid distinctions, pedantic definition mongering, and lack of imagination. My impression is that it has maintained the ethos of the positivist movement, although nowadays this movement has basically died out. One of the important distinctions made by the positivist movement was distinguishing the "context of discovery" from the "context of justification". Basically, this was used to make the point that philosophy is ultimately about propositional knowledge that is either true or false, and so the context of discovery was irrelevant no matter how problematic it might seem. As an extension of the claim that propositional knowledge can be isolated from the context of its origin, the analytic philosophical tradition has had a keen interest in developing temporally neutral theories that can be abstracted away from history.
With this personal background in mind, hopefully it can become clear how frustrating it was for me to feel stuck and surrounded by this general approach to philosophy as my philosophical and political interests adopted a far more integrated approach that rejected the importance of the distinctions offered by this mode of doing philosophy. It was frustrating because it felt like the only tools and terms I had access to were radically inadequate to speak about the things I became increasingly interested in. As examples I could mention particularly anarchism, Marx, and queer theory as trying to historicize the concepts at play in philosophical reflection, as well as blurring the boundaries between philosophy, culture, politics, aesthetics, interpersonal relationships, etc. 
Raymond Geuss was the right philosopher for the right time of my intellectual journey. Much of his work is engaging with the historically hegemonic ways of approaching philosophy, and ruthlessly and consistently detesting the (neo-)Kantian and (neo-)Platonist worldivews. It provided me with a demonstration of how philosophy can be undertaken without all the baggage that I had been stuck with, much of it I was unaware that I was holding on to. 
I still find things that remain influenced by old patterns of thinking, and I believe I came to one of those revelations today. One aspect of what I have been recently writing and reflecting about is the fact that I regret not having more deeply contextualized hobbies, which is one of the pernicious sticking points in disposition in an old way of philosophically orienting my way in the world. I think this was operating far before I formally encountered philosophy though, as it seems I had some rough and vulgar influences of the general Enlightenment project, with something like the idea that traditions did not matter. This had lots of influences in a variety of areas, but one particularly weird application was in media consumption. Because I had that general outlook, any background familiarity with the creators and the media itself was seen as damaging and distorting. I wanted to have a "pure" viewing experience, unincumbered by any prejudiced associations. What I realized today is that I have basically maintained this orientation in practice even though I no longer endorse the underlying philosophy behind it (blah blah Zizek and ideology blah blah).
To get more concrete (I am sorry for the needlessly long introduction), I am specifically thinking about otaku media like anime, manga, and visual novels. I been have mentioned lately in writings that I want to be more aware of the authors, studios, and histories that inform these creations, as I think that it is vital for properly analyzing and understanding them. Additionally, I have expressed the desire to be more familiar in general with basic media analysis frameworks. But I realize now that i have some 

Lately I have been writing and thinking that I want to be able to contexualize my hobbies better, particularly around otaku media like anime, manga, and visual novels. This will include things like being aware of authors, studios, the production process, genre conventions, the history of Japan, otaku cultural history and its developments, as well as basic media analysis frameworks and paradigms. However I realized today that this runs contrary to how I have been approaching media for a long time in my life. In the past I have wanted as decontextualized an experience as possible, with the idea that it would be more "pure" and undistorted that way. I have since become disillusioned with the philosophical reasoning supporting that position, but the disposition has stuck around nonetheless. 
Beyond just falling into a pattern of behavior and being intellectually lazy and uncurious, I think there are some other reasons why maintain this approach to otaku media consumption which would be more defendable. For instance, even though the idea of an unmediated viewing experience is absurd, I genuinely do find it quite bothersome to have others opinions front and center in my mind while watching an anime. Even glancing at the average AniList rating prior to viewing still bothers me sometimes because of how it distracts me and how I think while watching. I think I can attribute this to my interest in evaluative comparison and analysis. While I am watching the show I am constantly considering whether the Reddit commenters points hold up to scrutiny or if I agree with them, whereas I would likely not have approached the media in that way otherwise. This is not intrinsically a bad thing! It just so happens though that I have very low opinions about the average anime viewer and so I frequently feel annoyed and confined by thinking about media on their terms. 
The obvious answer here is just to stay off of Reddit, AniList, MAL, /a, or whatever else, at least until I finish the anime. I can enjoy the experience the way I like, and then engage with their points if I feel so inclined. The problem is it's sort of like pandora's box in that once I am exposed to 