12/27/2022 09:05
What was Overwatch?

I was never really much of a gamer growing up. I played some Wii games on the family console, and that was about it. I was exposed to Minecraft in elementary school by a friend and I played a lot of that, but didn't really spread out much at all beyond that. I didn't find out about Steam until I was a semester or two into high school by overhearing some boys talk about CS:GO. The first game I purchased was Undertale on November 15, 2015. I found out about that because I was getting into watching YouTubers at that time and wanted to play it myself. My early purchase history is pretty highly correlated with whatever Jacksepticeye was playing at the time, lol. I did really like Undertale (~60 hours total playtime) and playing it with my brother was especially cool, but the other things not so much. I logged 77 hours of Slime Rancher around this time, and played through Life is Strange, but nothing else had much sticking power.

I was never really much of a gamer growing up, and I tended to play the games I did like rather intensely without getting much breadth of all the games on offer. I played some Wii games on the family console and Minecraft [1] on the family laptop in elementary and middle school, and only found out about Steam when I got to high school when I overheard some boys talk about CS:GO and tried to figure out how they were playing. When I eventually got around to purchasing some games, my choices were highly correlated with whatever 2015 Jacksepticeye was playing at the time as I just started to get into YouTubers. I really liked Undertale (~60 hours playtime between me and my brother, sometimes together), Slime Rancher (77 hours), and played through Life is Strange during this time, but the other games I bought didn't have a lot of sticking power. Then during a neighborhood Christmas event I saw my neighbors playing Rocket League so I got that and played 332 hours over the next several months. 

When I got to high school I had also started a job at a local resturaunt, and over time became acquainted with the people who worked there, especially the two 20-something guys that worked as expeditors on the weekends. They were the first place I heard about Overwatch from, and for some reason I was invited to play at some point. I liked that I was getting attention and being shown something by someone that age, so I bought it the next day (June 6th, 2016), a couple weeks after the game officially released. I played a bit here and there for the next week, and the next weekend at work Luke showed me the Cosmonaut Variety Hour video "The Best Character in Overwatch". This stuck in my head and influenced me to play a lot of Junkrat in the early days lol. After our Sunday shift we actually played together for a bit and I really liked that. 

I don't think we ever played again, and I didn't fully understand Overwatch, so after that I didn't play for a while. I can tell this because of my achievements. On the day that I played with Luke (6/12/2016), my account reached level 10. I didn't reach level 25 (the level you can begin playing competitive at) until three months later, and didn't receive my next (very easy) achivement for another month. I didn't win 100 games until November and finally reached level 50 at the very end of the year. I think I mostly played Junkrat, but would also flex to support (Mercy) or tank (Reinhardt/D.Va) when requested. 

I don't have a ton of memory of what happened over the course of 2017, and don't have much record of it either. I don't recall what my motivation for playing was either, since I didn't have any friends that played and I don't think I watched a lot of YouTube content for it either. I was hardstuck bronze for multiple seasons at this point, and sometimes dipped below 500 rating (I remember being confused at why profile had <500 showing). I also remember being sad when I made it to silver because I thought the bronze icon was much cuter. I think I also picked up Pharah during this time, probably because I saw people being successful on her against me when I one-tricked Junkrat. Also, since this was my first first-person-shooter, it makes sense I would gravitate toward the mechanically easier heroes like that. 

In any case, over the year I began to climb in rating and eventually made it to platinum. At this point for some reason I decided it would be a good idea to join a team. I'm not entirely sure why to be honest (I wasn't a very social person), but maybe I thought I had maxxed out my individual potential and needed a team environment to understand the game better. I googled "where to find Overwatch teams" and found some weird scuffed website that people posted their Discord contact info on and then I reached out to people. Eventually I found a team that wanted me, but in this process I also realized that they were looking for a set role. Over my climbing I had shifted to being a Mercy/Rein two trick basically with some occasional swaps here and there. It seemed like they already had some support players, so I decided to go with tank. Once we started playing together, it became apparent that the other tank player also played Rein and the other main tanks, so I got slotted into the off-tank role, which was basically only D.Va. I did not know how to play Roadhog or Zarya at all, but that didn't really matter because of how flexibile D.Va was.

As you can expect, the Platinum team soon imploded (December 2017). I invited the other tank to play in a new team

I remained loose friends with some of the players though, and with one of the support players in particular. Later on I would reconnect with the other tank player, as he also seemed to climb at a similar rate as me.


[1] I actually think a friend showed me Minecraft quite early into its development relative to when most people discovered it, maybe 2010 or 2011. I played it pretty heavily from that point on when I could.

nvm i give up everything so confusing i dont understand timelines lmao. if i really wanted to do this right i would have to correlate a bunch of things on battlefy and in all sorts of discord dms and servers and and youtube videos ive posted and other ppl have posted and bruh idek, half the shit i said above is wrong idek how many teams ive been on and a ton of the info is either unlisted or deleted or whatever. gg.

vids like this (found in lava's dms 2019) like how am i gonna track all these down, why is honey here?? whats even happening lmfao: https://youtu.be/CHRHFNkUjGM
