hatsuharu telling everyone about kisa's bullies
Hatsuharu:
That hurts. What, are you mad?
Telling me not to shoot my mouth off? Yeah, right.
You know how worried I've been?
Your parents are looking all over for you right now.
- parental control, reframing his (controlling) actions as her responsibility and using it to justify sharing her information, especially when she is in the room.
- biting portrayed as "childish"

Kisa's mom:
Kisa, my daughter. I've been looking for you.
Shigure-san took the trouble to call me.
Tell me, what are you doing?
Why are you doing this and causing trouble for everybody?
What are you thinking?
Do you enjoy making trouble for me?
So, why didn't you tell me about the bullying?
Why did you run away from home?
Why won't you speak?
I'm so tired.
I can't take this anymore.

Tohru:
It's hard to tell someone... that you're being bullied.
For some reason, I started apologizing like crazy.
I felt so ashamed.
I started to feel ashamed of myself for being bullied.
And I was embarrassed to let my mom find out.
I was scared she wouldn't love me anymore.

kisa feeling comfort from following tohru around

Tohru: I'm sure she'll speak to me in an adorable voice one day.

mom communicating her meal preferences, interpreted as kindness and caring
won't totally discount, but also could be feeling bad about lack of control and this is a way to maintain connection

kisa got bullied for hair and eye color, told kids she couldn't help how she looked, everyone ignored her then, until she'd speak in class and everyone would laugh at her.

Yuki:
I don't think being weak is a good thing...
...but I also don't think "stronger" necessarily means "better."
You sometimes hear that it's survival of the fittest.
But we're humans, not animals.
Even those of the zodiac are human.

Teacher's note to kisa:
"Soma-san, how are you?
Will you come back to school soon?
The rest of the class is also waiting for your return.
You can always talk to me,
so why not try a little harder to make friends with everybody?"
"The most important thing is to learn to love yourself.
Find something good about yourself,
so you can love yourself.
If you hate yourself, how can others love you?"

Yuki:
"Learn to love yourself"?
What does that mean?
How are we supposed to find something good about ourselves?
The whole reason we hate ourselves...
...is because we can only see the parts we hate.
So forcing ourselves to find "good points" feels hollow, like we're making things up.
It's not like that.
That's not how it works.
I think that it's only when someone says they love you
that you're able to start loving yourself.
I think when someone accepts you,
that's when you start feeling like you can forgive yourself a little
and start to love yourself.

Kisa finally speaks: "yes, it [she (Tohru)] made me happy"

Yuki:
Kisa, what do you plan to do?
Do you want to stay like this?

Kisa:
No...
I can't.
I need to try harder.
Or... Or else I'll turn into an even worse person.
Even if we can't be friends again...
Even if they keep ignoring me...
...I have to make sure to try a little harder, or else!

Yuki:
And, if you get sad again or if it's too painful, come here again.
She'll be here for you.

Yuki:
It's not like I suddenly became stronger,
nor did anything change.
My body still trembles,
but I'll keep facing my fears.
What's important is...
...the desire to improve...
...which stems from weakness.