willow — Today at 10:30 AM
absolutely it's an exaggeration. one of the lessons i've taken to heart from adorno/geuss is the idea that only the exaggerations are true, and i've tried to allow myself greater exaggeration and metaphor since i think it results in more generative and insightful thought.
willow — Today at 10:38 AM
furthermore, my thinking around instrumentalization of time is not limited to labor, and could be any arbitrary external temporal imposition. if we're being philosophically rigorous, this stark division between free time and imposed time doesn't really stand up, as the historical perspective on the concept of freedom (see quentin skinner) and autonomy (see any anti-kantian) illustrates. this is one of the main challenges i have elaborating an explanation of it, because i ultimately think it's incoherent; but nontheless it has maintained a powerful hold over me - the nature of what counts as an "imposition" must be contextually specified. 
i have tried to write about it in the past, which failed spectacularly mostly due to my own deficiencies as a writer, lack of specificity in scope, not being well-read enough (particularly adorno/horkimer and their critics on instrumental reason), and unwillingness to generatively exaggerate. maybe i could try again some day. https://dreary.neocities.org/blog/otaku-and-instrumental-reason-draft/ 
my favorite example of my obsession with free time comes from my prior usage of the now defunct "Log 24" iOS app in middle/high school and college. i would divide my day into time slots and try to optimize for the maximization of blue* and the minimization of non-blue.
willow — Today at 10:46 AM
*purple was an interesting category. most of the other labels remained somewhat steady (if not in actual label then in spirit. ie "free time" vs "leisure", or "chores" vs "self care" etc) but this one changed frequently and was sort of "blue but for my favored central activity of the time that was somewhat 'productive', be it Overwatch, reading philosophy, whatever"
willow — Today at 10:55 AM
i’d really love to return to blogging / taking a bit more care and writing something long form, i just struggle to muster the energy and time commitment to do so. i’d really like to do research into the subject ahead of time but that can easily become never ending rabbit hole. but without it my comments feel hollow and worthless and poorly formed. also, my previous blog posts were all written a flurry of passion and interest, where i could afford to sacrifice a whole day or several concurrent days to the devotion of a topic, and that just doesn’t seem feasible any more.
however, it’s not like that approach ever resulted in anything i was particularly proud of, so maybe a different strategy would be for the best after all. to be honest though it seems a lot less fun, and therefore a lot less motivationally viable 
willow — Today at 2:10 PM
there is an apparent tension between my claim that i have adopted a more lenient attitude toward Truth, or neurotically avoiding falsity, by allowing myself to be more metaphorical and exaggerating, and the lack of desire to produce blogs 
but the thing is, before i was reticent to produce blogs because i didn’t want to be wrong; i would constantly backtrack on myself and write in circles
but now i’m worried about a relative lack of significance and profundity
it’s not about true/false but about being less enlightening than id like to be
and i feel capable of reaching more enlightening ground through additional research
it i don’t feel as if i have the power to actually do it, which is largely attributable to time discussion i have been having thus far
at least not in the interest time frame i’m most amenable to
“capture in time, even if in some sense one’s thought has moved on” geuss
willow — Today at 2:18 PM
Image
"The vertiginous kaleidoscope that was Sidney’s mind and discourse was in a way a model of intellectual activity, as a kind of permanent theoretical motion, but I thought it was probably also important to be able to take a snapshot of the provisional results of that activity at some given time and fix it in writing, even if one’s thoughts in some sense really had already moved on."
not thinking like a liberal 137