Girlfriend, Girlfriend




Review Outline:




Representation Cool (I am a liberal now)

Male Gaze

"Fairness", "Equality", and other ideological delusions

Allonormativity and Amatonormativity

Possessiveness and Competition
	- Rika's father

Artificial Scarcity
	- Rika

Needs More Gay
	- the creator is a coward

Some Good Moments!
	- challenge absolute subservience approach of Naoya in episode 4
	- challenge Nagisa seeing herself as second best
	- little short thing with Saki's mom supporting her sexuality

So Much Unrealized Potential






EP1:
Okay I'm like actually crying rn im smiling so much this so so cool. Im turning into a lib fr "representation matters" lmaoo omg im so giddy. like yes yes its not great and its kinda gross that its guy with 2 girl and theres all sorts of patriarchy things... buttt people are being honest and upfront and having difficult conversations and theres emotions and its messy and its fantastic. like boundary negotiation and things its just really really fucking cool to see. obviously wierd things with "fairness" or whatever like it has to be "equal" and theres weird amatonormativity and its multiple couples instead of relationship anarchy utopia but like this is so unique im having a great time. oh also forgot to mention weird things like the one girl refusing to be interested in girl, but still talks about boobs and stuff for fanservice idk.

EP2:
YOOO. i love love love nagisa wtff. "it might not last forever but if I try I'll be able to enjoy the time I have" so fucking based. whaaat keeping it secret grrr wtfff. really dont like that. also the "covering for her" snooping on saki's phone rly bad bruh. snooping understandable and interesting situation to deal with! but wish dealt with feelings directly. really dont like the physical hitting stuff haha joke :/

EP3:
stop stop sstop as;lkjalksd we must halt english localization until we can figure out what the fuck is going on - "monogamy is poggers" i never want to hear you speak again lmfao. aghgh dont love how both girls really just wanna be monog zz. nagisa way more chill and thats cool but still its there. also dont love the complete rejection of caring about yourself the guy does when saki is upset. but i think thats inherent to treating the relationship as "girlfriend" so yea. it is cool that nagisa is like sacrificing and caring about saki/mukai relationship resolving.

EP4:
yay i really like that they challenge the absolute subservience approach, very good. cool to see saki and minase bonding! ok ok the premise of hoshizaki joining the polycule is hilarious and adorable but fuck i wish they would stop only framing it as one guy dating multiple girls when it could extremely easily be different and that would allow for way way more interesting plot. but i suppose less relatable for normies idk... rly want tho. having a good time still ! ^-^

EP5:
dont like the constant theme of "love you even more" stuff. plus competing for love and treating it like limited resource, cringe. obv stalker stuff is a little off but tbh the reasons why rejection are so bad so i cant even be against her lol. male gaze out of control zz.

EP6:
bro why this is silly you clearly like her too just let it happen whats wrong with you. bro pls stop saying "greedy". yikes fuckign disgusting father shit. 

EP7:
ahaalsdjfylk whyyy we are bouncing between terrible allonormativity and weird restrictive shit at breakneck speeds pls stop. and they don't even care about sex for the enjoyment for like some broader metaphysical significance stuff. I do like the little clip where the mom is supporting her daughter's sexuality tho thats cute. also this is like a very small thing and im reading way more into than intended but i do like that there was the little "master" slip up and that it went uncommunicated, and if you read into it a lot you could say that its showing that being in a polycule isn't all about complete "transparency" all the time and communication is not an uncomplicated good thing in all cases.

EP8:
possessive cringe. the whole time. also why are we acting like her having a crush is a new development? 

EP9:
bro why do we keep looping on the same shit reason for rejection that actually doesn't make sense. like i suppose its good to show consistency and not to just bend because someone's persistent and more or less harrassing you when you've made it clear, but it just brings more attention to the terrible reasoning. also god kill me the kiss virginity shit is cringe. ooooh excited for date - wish they would focus on the simple things more its an interesting enough premise anyways.

EP10:
oh my god i love minase's internal dialogue when she says "she [rika] refuses to join our relationship" like thats the distinguishing feature which is the correct thing to focus on!! i like minase so much duddee best character in show by far. tho it is a little cringe that the motivation is like "oh i was the second girl so im inferior" type of thing sometimes. ugh the keeping it a secret drama is boring as fuck just be chill who cares.

EP11:
idek anymore lmao. this show needs to be more gay rlly bad.

EP12:
even at the end its still competition based thing wtf why.